5.0-beta Post (#43)
JabRef/blog.jabref.org: _posts/2019-12-06-JabRef-5-0-beta.md

---
title: JabRef 5.0 Beta release
id: jabref-5-0-beta
author: "[JabRef Developers](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/blob/master/DEVELOPERS)" 
bg: jabref-font
color: white
---

We are proud to announce the release of the first beta of JabRef 5.0! 🚀 

Since the [alpha release](http://blog.jabref.org/#august-27-2019-%E2%80%93-jabcon-2019-jabref-5-0-alpha-release) of Jabref 5.0 we continued fixing bugs and addressing usability.

In total, there are at least 40 major bugfixes in the [Changelog](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/blob/v5.0-beta/CHANGELOG.md) which makes JabRef more stable and performant than the previously released 5.0-alpha of August.

> Our Linux will surely be happy, that we now really support the X11 primary selection (typically used by the middle mouse key) and that we offer a portable edition as well as debian and rpm packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our Linux users will surely be happy, that we now really support the X11 primary selection (typically used by the middle mouse key) and that we offer a portable edition as well as deb and rpm packages.
```

color: white
---

We are proud to announce the release of the first beta of JabRef 5.0! 🚀 

Since the [alpha release](http://blog.jabref.org/#august-27-2019-%E2%80%93-jabcon-2019-jabref-5-0-alpha-release) of Jabref 5.0 we continued fixing bugs and addressing usability.

In total, there are at least 40 major bugfixes in the [Changelog](https://github.com/JabRef/jabref/blob/v5.0-beta/CHANGELOG.md) which makes JabRef more stable and performant than the previously released 5.0-alpha of August.

> Our Linux will surely be happy, that we now really support the X11 primary selection (typically used by the middle mouse key) and that we offer a portable edition as well as debian and rpm packages.

Reviewer: Our Linux users....
